I recently got to visit the antimatter
factory at CERN. This is the only place
in the world where they've managed to
make anti-hydrogen. This is
antihydrogen. It's an atom of antimatter
made of an anti-electron, also known as
a posetron, and an anti-roton in the
middle. This is arguably the most
expensive material in the world, costing
an estimated thousand trillion dollars
per gram. They have to be incredibly
careful with this antimatter because
it's a kind of opposite matter to what
our world's made from. So if the
antimatter touches literally anything,
it'll annihilate immediately, turning
all of its mass into pure energy.
Fortunately, antihydrogen is slightly
magnetic. So the scientists at CERN can
stop it from touching anything by
hovering it in a magnetic field called a
penning trap. After the Big Bang, half
of the universe was made of antimatter
and the other half normal matter,
according to many of our best theories
of cosmology. But today we don't see any
antimatter in the universe and is a
mystery where it went. So making
antimatter in the lab means we can study
its properties which might give us some
clues about what happened to half a
universe's worth of antimatter. This
experiment I visited tested which
direction antihydrogen would fall in
gravity. Would it fall down like matter
or because it's antimatter would it fall
up? Turns out it did fall down. slightly
disappointing because now I can't invent
hoverboards, but it's really cool for me
to actually see the actual experiment
for when all of that news came out. So,
it's pretty cool to be in an antimatter
factory. For a great overview of all of
particle physics, check out this YouTube
video, The Map of Particle Physics.